# RUM
RUM stands for Rogue-like/Ultima/MUD and is a construction kit for crafting multiplayer CRPGs in those particular styles. Via an IDE, editor, and scripting language, users can develop games that can be optionally downloaded via a portal interface, patched, and executed via client and server topology.

# Building the project
After cloning the repository, use CMake to build the project solution. Assuming the project is cloned locally to C:/git/open-rum, you'll configure CMake like this:
Where is the source code: C:/git/open-rum
Where to build the binaries: C:/git/rum/cmake

Most of the requisite SDK files are included in the repository under the open-rum/sdk folder. However, in order to build the editor and portal applications, you will need to install Qt 5.15.2. You might also need to add the QTDIR environment variable to your system properties, e.g. QTDIR = C:/Qt/5.15.2/msvc2019_64. Additionally, you'll need to copy the Qt5Core, Qt5Gui, Qt5Network, Qt5OpenGL, Qt5Sql, and Qt5Widgets DLLs over to your open-rum folder.

See open-rum/sdk/SDK.txt for a detailed description of all third-party programs and required settings.

Once all SDK conditions have been satisfied, hit Configure and Generate to create the .sln and .vcproj files necessary to build all program executables.

# Project files
There are six projects that comprise RUM: Client, Server, Editor, Lib, Portal, and Debugger.

Client: Used to play a game created using RUM.
Server: Used to host the server of a game created using RUM.
Editor: Used to craft and export game files.
Lib: A library file that is used by all other projects to build their executables.
Portal: An optional app that can be used to download game files.
Debugger: An ImGui interface used to debug scripting logic.

Open the open-rum/cmake/rum.sln file that was generated by CMake using Visual Studio 2022 or 2019. Build the solution for both the Debug and Release configurations.

# Running the game
Launch either the rum-editor.exe or rum_editor_debug.exe that has been copied to the open-rum folder after a successful build. Click the Open Project button at the top left, and navigate to the open-rum/ultima/game.rum file and click Open. Open the Release Manager portion of the editor from the row of icons across the top. Choose a publish path at the bottom left, e.g. C:/git/open-rum/export. Then click the Publish Release button at the top left. Wait until all files are copied to the export folder. There is a convenience batch file called _start.bat that can then be used to launch the client and server from the export folder. If you chose a different folder, you'll need to modify the batch file, or create a different one.
